CS 3152
Group 1
Idea Formation

Thematic Focus
What dream are you satisfying?
I want to be a musician-swordsman slaying monsters and demons
What is your setting?
Some kind of dungeon, exact setting is unsure
What is your perspective?
Top down, possibly 2.5D
A perspective that allows us to adequately portray objects,
dangers,  from four directions (think Binding of Isaac, or
some of the perspectives in Transistor)
Gameplay Mechanics

What are the player’s goals?
Slash, block, dodge, and cast spells to fight off waves of enemies and obstacles
Match the timing to the beat of the music in order to fill up the “sync” bar
and gain bonuses

What are the player actions?
Standard top-down movement, not restricted to a grid (OR turning/changing the
character’s currently-facing direction) - Primary
Slash with a sword - Primary
Use a shield - Secondary
Cast a spell - Secondary
What challenges does the player face?
Effectively fighting enemies (Intrinsic challenge because it relates to
simply game mechanics)
Matching abilities with the rhythm of the game for bonuses (Extrinsic challenge
because it depends on how well the player does it)

Main Ideas
2.5-D perspective, action-rhythm game
Knight/warrior character moves around on a stage (OR stands on a platform on
the center of the screen)
Able to face 4 directions (No vertical movement off gound plane)
Slashes, blocks and casts spells to fight waves of enemies/obstacles
All of these abilities would be synced to a (preferably upbeat) music track--
matching the rhythm would give the player bonuses
Attacking enemies to the beat increases a sync meter
The higher the sync meter, the more of a dance party the game becomes (more
lights, more intense music)
Bonuses may include increased damage to enemies
Filling the bar enables the player to unleash large AoE attack around the
character
Discussion between stationary (almost like an action version of DDR/Osu!) and
movement-based game (where matching the rhythm would still be a secondary objective)

Comments by Walker White:

I have read your idea. You get full credit for completing the communication lab. I have some critiques for your proposed game. These are mostly going to sound negative. That is because I am trying to get you on the right track before Concept Document, because your game idea is much harder to change after the Concept Document.

It sounds like the game is Binding of Issac or Zelda with a rhythm component. There might be something here, but I need to know exactly how the rhythm element fits in with everything. Is it just tacked on to the side, or do I have to work to rhythm on everything I do? This needs clear storyboarding.

You should keep the verbs to a minimum, as more verbs would make matching the rhythm very complex. As we discussed in class "cast a spell" is a very proxy and used as a codeword for "insert a lot of different abilities to be thought about later". Which I do not want.
movement-based game (where matching the rhythm would still be a secondary
objective)

